The Centre has warned Army and paramilitary forces of a cyber attack through mobile phones and directed them to delete certain apps created by Chinese companies or having Chinese links from their mobile phones. The advisory has been rolled out by the Union Home Ministry after receiving inputs from agencies like the R&AW and NTRO, reported India Today. As per reliable inputs, a number of android/IOS apps developed by Chinese developers or having Chinese links are reportedly either spyware or other malicious ware. Use of these apps by our force personnel can be detrimental to data security having implications on the force and national security, the advisory says. Earlier this year, Chinese firm Alibaba's UC Browser had come under the government's scanner for alleged leak of mobile data of its Indian users. A senior IT ministry official had hinted at banning the browser in India. However, the company had rubbished the allegations and said that it is standard industry practice to collect user information and data in necessary scenarios to provide users with localised services after taking necessary authorisation from users to collect the required data. Our systems are protected by an end-user licensing agreement which protects the interest of our users. We will not do anything to breach the trust of our users, UC Web had said. The National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC), formed under the National Technical Research Organisation (NTRO), had warned of the attack 4 days earlier, which was completely ignored.

The social media giant is using a new kind of CPATCHA- a type of challenge-response test used in computing to determine whether or not the user is human - to verify whether a user is a real person or just a bot, Wired.com reported on Wednesday. We'll check it and then permanently delete it from our servers. A message said: You Can't Log In Right Now. You'll now be logged out of Facebook as a security precaution.

Google has said that it will be releasing a fix for a random reboot issue in its flagship Pixel 2 and Pixel 2 smartphones. The update would be either bundled as part of a monthly security update or a future Android software release. Though Google's 2017 iteration of Pixel devices are a worthy attempt at being an iPhone-killer but since launch they have struggled with problems such as screen burn-in issue, BLuetooth connection issues, the most-talked about blue tint issue. Earlier in October, the tech giant had promised a fix to the screen burn-in issue. The company has also promised a fix for the faint buzzing sound that appears during calls on some Pixel 2 phones. The Pixel 2 XL screen has been designed with an advanced POLED technology, including QHD+ resolution, wide colour gamut and high contrast ratio for natural and beautiful colors and renderings, Android Central had quoted a Google spokesperson as saying. The latest bug comes shortly after Google announced that it will be soon rolling out a new on-device model to accurately evaluate the battery data on Pixel 2 and Pixel 2 XL phones. The new feature smart battery is said to correctly evaluate battery data in a personalised way. Previously, your phone would estimate your battery loss with simple assumptions. If you've used about 10 per cent per hour over the past few hours, we would guess you will keep using 10 per cent per hour. As you might expect, this wasn't always very accurate, the company wrote in a blog post last week.